the United States and Britain have
imposed new sanctions on Iran and its
weapons manufacturers to punish tan for
its missile and drone attacks on Israel
last weekend at a meeting of G7 foreign
ministers in Italy Lord Cameron said he
hoped the international response would
persuade Israeli officials not to
retaliate too strongly and see off a
wider War White House officials said the
sanctions were aimed at disrupting
Iran's ability to produce the unmanned
aerial vehicles that its military used
to attack Israel by cutting off Global
Financial transactions with those
companies involved in building them at
the UN Iran's foreign minister Hussein
Amir had this to
say in case of any use of force by the
Israeli regime and violating our
sovereignty the Islamic Republic of Iran
will not hesitate to assert its inherent
rights to give a decisive and proper
response to it to make the regime regret
its actions
but in New York the UN Secretary General
Antonio Gutierrez was decidedly downbeat
about the situation in the Middle East
warning that the region is on a
precipice in a speech to the UN Security
Council Mr Gutierrez urged all countries
to exercise maximum restraint saying one
miscalculation could lead to full-scale
regional conflict it is I time to end
the bloody cycle of
retaliation it is I time to stop
top the International Community must
work together to prevent any actions
that could push the entire Middle East
over the edge with a devastating impact
on
civilians let me be clear the risks are
spiraling on many
fronts in Italy Ukraine was also on the
agenda here's the UK foreign secretary
Lord David Cameron on the support that
KF needs Ukraine couldn't be clearer
they need more ammunition we are helping
to fill that Gap uh they need more air
defenses that Gap needs to be filled no
country has done more than Britain in
terms of helping the Ukrainian Armed
Forces helping the Ukrainian people and
the Ukrainian government and we look
forward to hearing what foreign minister
CA has to say today about the further
steps that we need to take well let's
get reaction then in Italy for us
tonight at the G7 Jessica Parker and
also our diplomatic correspondent who's
in Jerusalem James landel James if I
could just start with you does the
Israeli War cabinet share the view of
the Secretary General that things are as
precarious as he believes they
are oh I think they are aware of the
consequences um of any further
miscalculation uh if Israel's response
to Iran's attack at the weekend does
trigger an escalatory process uh yeah
know I think they are incredibly aware
of that but at the same time they are
determined to respond and I think what
they would want to do is respond and
then leave it at that you hear that from
spokespeople saying you know we need to
act we need to do something they're
aware of the consequences whether they
are as aware as concerned as some of
their allies uh have been uh signaling
in recent days I think remains to be
seen we simply don't know yet precisely
what the Israelis are going to do they
they say they are going to act we don't
know how yet we don't know when uh there
is some speculation it's no more than
that that it's possible they might delay
any action until after the Passover
holiday but again that could be just
people here in Jerusalem um wishing uh
for the best a little bit of what's
called optimism bias yeah Jess the the
sanctions announced today were heavily
trailed um ahead of the meeting will
they molfy the Israelis is there any
faith in a sanctions regime like this
because they're obviously not the first
sanctions imposed on
Iran no I mean I think think the UK
figures are 13 entities and individuals
being sanctioned uh as you said linked
to Iran's missile and drone program to
add to the already existing 400
sanctions that are in place but look I
think certainly the hope is from the
likes of Lord Cameron um the British
foreign secretary that this will be
something they can sell again to the
Israelis this idea of a win uh an act of
solidarity sending a message to Iran but
it's interesting um Lord Cameron
alongside the German foreign minister
analena bbok arrived here to Capri
pretty late yesterday because they' come
both of them from Israel where they'd
been meeting with Israeli leaders as
they were obviously calling on Israel to
show restraint um in response to the
Iranian attack that message has
continued here although it has to be
said discussions have now moved on uh to
the war in Ukraine but I think it was
interesting to note that after those
conversations that anela bbok and David
Cameron had in Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
was very clear that Israel would be
making its own choices the other
discussion in Capri Jess was Ukraine uh
they're returning to this idea of using
the Frozen Russian assets or the the
interest acrude from those assets to
fund the war effort how far have they
got with that because I know it is part
of one of the bills that discuss in the
US House of Representatives this
weekend yeah it seems to be a pretty
complicated idea and one as you say
that's been kicking around for a really
long time and there's been hesitancy
before because of legal complexities as
talking to officials here tonight they
say they tell me the US is pushing this
idea as you say using uh Frozen Russian
assets the bulk of which are held in
Europe um to use the interest to then
get a loan in order to channel money to
Ukraine in terms of whether this is
going to happen obviously we don't know
the indications I've had is that it
certainly won't get over the line at
this G7 foreign ministers um meeting if
anything if they can get there it would
be something they tried to finalize at
the leaders G7 Summit uh later in the
Summer James one of the the more
alarming uh pieces of rhetoric we heard
today from the Iranian side was that
they're reviewing their nuclear strategy
um they seem to be implying rather
overtly that it they might try and seek
a nuclear weapon if if Israel were to
attack them I mean when you look at at
how that might play out if you stretch
forward and look at the implications of
that we could soon be into a a new arms
race yeah look the Iranians are in full
deterrence mode at the moment doing
everything they possibly can to minimize
uh whatever Israeli response is coming
and one of we've just heard it from that
clip from um Mr Abdul Alan the the
Iranian foreign minister speaking at the
UN you've also had this um irgc
revolutionary Guard general talking
about this nuclear thing now at the
moment uh Iran says that its nuclear
program is purely civilian there are
many countries in the west that do not
believe them and have been trying to
restrict that program for many many
years because they fear that actually
Iran is is trying to develop weapons
grade uh n nuclear fuel that could be
used uh to make a nuclear weapon so for
Iran to say to become overt about its
nuclear ambition you know would be a
substantial step change it's part of the
attempt to try and persuade the Israelis
to minimize their escalation it could
have the opposite effect it could
encourage the Israelis to Target those
nuclear facilities uh that they have
done before and and could well do again
so again every Iranians Trying to
minimize Israel's response but Israel's
still being pulled they want to respond
pressure from the Iranians pressure from
their allies you know they're in quite a
bind at the moment they haven't finally
made up their decisions yet just briefly
James just a quick word on the qataris
who've been talking today saying they
they're going to consider whether to
continue in the role as mediators why
are they concerned about what's been
going
on look there are some American
politicians who've been critical of the
Qatar is saying they're not putting
enough pressure on Hamas to agree a deal
that they're you know they're hosting
the Hamas leadership in Qatar alongside
a big American base what's happened is
the Qatar is a pushing back saying look
enough of that you know if you guys push
us any further we could you know draw
stumps and leave this negotiation nobody
really wants that so I think this is an
act of the qataris pushing back against
those American critics James landelle
Jess Parker lovely to see you both thank
you for your contributions tonight